Hey guys welcome back to the chorus so in our last lecture we talked about the first step in our process
of getting press coverage and it's finding reporters.
Now we want to dig into that list that we made of 10 to 15 outlets and then reporters and started understand
more about each lead we identified.
Now these people are journalists bloggers and writers with different interests and areas of focus.
We need to do some research so we know which leads are the best ones to reach out to when we have something
to pitch that.
So step two of our process of getting coverage is to research and compile the interests of the people
on our list.
And that's what this lecture is all about.
So let's jump in here.
We've got our spreadsheet from The Last Lecture.
It's a list of eight to 10 or if you more crazy 10 15 names on here from our Web sites and blogs we
first identified.
Let's do some research and learn more about these reporters and writers.
So one thing we can do to learn about each person that makes a ton of sense is to read their articles.
Wow shocker I know right.
Tell it topic's did they generally write about.
Do they have any opinions about an industry trend or any other types of products playing to those opinions.
It's a great way to get in and actually get a good pitch and get their attention.
Make a list of topics and add it to your spreadsheet.
These topics can help create a scope you can stay within.
You go outside the scope chances are they won't be interested.
In some cases you might find some articles that are right on the money pieces I've written that really
relate well to your product business or interest.
Make note of those because while you'll be able to reference them later when you email them.
All right so for example in my research and the previous lecture we're searching for reporters.
Let's say I came across another iPhone accessory blog search result like this one.
IPhone Life magazine mouthfull specifically I identify this author Mike Riley as a potential lead who
can be interested in my tech invention.
He writes about similar iPhone related accessories so I added him to my list.
So here on his page of posts from the iPhone Life magazine website I can quickly skim and see which
topics he writes about most.
He's written about devices and accessories you can use with your iPhone.
Things you can put around your home like speakers some wearables health related accessories and games.
OK.
Well there's a bunch topics right there and I can list them in my spreadsheet because I might list out
wearables health games home things like that.
The fact he writes wearables gives me some hope for my wearable iPhone invention.
So this is a good start.
Repeat this process for each person on your list and you might see some overlap or some unique topics
come up.
OK.
Another thing you can do to research or leads is to check out their social feeds.
Now what did they actually post about.
What do they share.
You can go to Twitter and check out their replies feed on Twitter to see what responses or advice they've
been offering to people.
That's generally a better way of getting a pulse of what they think than looking at their official feed.
Now if you go to Twitter I don't even notice this but you have your regular feed and that's the things
that they post just to everyone.
And then you go to the replies and all then well you can see what they reply to other people and that's
usually them just talking versus the other ones which are literally they're often more prepared.
You usually get less out of them.
Look for more social profiles through Google for example.
Remember in our last lecture we found a guy with the name of Jessie Hollington who's a senior editor
at Ice Lounge.
Now this is because we invented a selfie or an iPhone holder for your head whatever.
You know we have a techie kind of invention for iPhones and in our search we found Mr. Hollington here.
Well if we want to know more about him beyond his articles Let's check out his social feeds.
Some writers have a site where they list out all their social accounts.
But if you have to google and just do something like that.
Jesse Hollington I'll count or you can use Google trickery put site Colan I allowed dot com.
Jesse Hollington and that what that does is it restricts the search only to that Web site.
And if you just did that.
Well there you go.
Really not that hard.
There is Twitter.
Here is is Corra.
And here's is link.
Now this gives us a couple of sites to go to to see what interest he has.
By the way when you find these reporters social accounts connect to them immediately it's a good way
to keep track of them.
And if you connect now you won't forget to do it later.
But also some of them will follow you right back so no questions asked.
So people are just like that if that happens on a platform like Twitter then you can message them privately.
And it's a nice option to have if they're active on the platform so we can keep that in mind for later
when we actually take the step of reaching out to them.
OK one more thing that can help us get to know these reporters and writers is to check out their social
profiles.
How do they describe themselves what's in their bias.
Sometimes it Biles they write for themselves provide some obvious cues about what they do and what they
like.
You might also see some off topic discussion points you can use to make an impression.
Now maybe you see one blogger likes the same sports team as you or you might live in the same area if
some of these people are local Maybe there's a chance you can meet them in person.
You know I Arel in real life meeting them face to face at a local tech event for example gives them
a chance to pitch them immediately.
I I'm actually kidding don't do that.
Meeting them allows you to just meet them.
Remember these are real people so introduce yourself.
Get to know them and just don't go immediately to the hard sell.
Maybe exchange contact info whatever the point is that if it's in person or it's there an e-mail or
you're tweeting with them or retreating for getting their attention or direct messaging the whole idea
is to get their attention.
Right.
So later on you pitch them you're not a complete random right if they already know who you are they've
heard of you they've actually recognized your name dramatically increases the chance of them actually
being willing to cover you.
Now this process takes time unfortunately is not something that works overnight.
Once you find a list of targets you kind of have to stalk them and you have to do it usually for a decently
long period of time.
A lot of people out there that do PR think of things in terms of quarterly cycles and some of them and
think of things like yearly cycles.
So if they start stocking someone now well expect to start getting in with them or at least getting
to the point where you know if they're going to cover you around six to nine months later.
Now those are obviously professionals like we don't have to do that mound of it for doing it ourselves
DIY style.
You know maybe you just do this on and off for a couple weeks and then use that to kind of inform yourself
going forward.
Usually it's like a month is a pretty good period of time to actually do this just kind of on the side.
All right.
Maybe this makes sense maybe it doesn't.
Anyway do your basic research and figure out what they like what they covered.
Find their social profiles that will open up a whole can of different things that you can go off of
opinions they have quirks they might have where they live where they're going to hang out what events
they're going to etc. and then just keep doing it for each person on your list.
Personally I like to take shorthand notes on the side so I know some of the things that stuck out to
me like you just never forget them because too many people on your list they shouldn't take too long.
Just go step by step and your spreadsheet will begin to fill up with more great detail you'll need as
we move forward.
Now speaking of moving forward now don't this step.
I'll see you guys in the next one.